# Vermont Food Scrap Generators
In July 2020, Vermont became the first state to ban food scraps from being disposed of in the trash. The law aims to reduce food waste, conserve landfill space, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Both individuals and businesses and institutions in the state are required to abide by the law.

This project analyzes the estimated amount of food scraps generated by businesses and institutions in Vermont. The dataset was acquired from Vermont Agency of Natural Resources Open Data Portal.

Analysis of the data was done in SQLite. The following questions were explored:

- How many unique businesses and institutions are in the dataset?
- How many of each type of institution are in the dataset?
- What is the average amount of food scraps produced per week for a business or institution?
- What is the minimum amount of food scraps produced per week for a business or institution?
- How does the amount of food scraps produced per week vary between types of institutions?
- How does the amount of food scraps produced per week vary between subtypes of institutions?
- What is the number of businesses and institutions per county?
- What is the name and contact information for the business that produces the most food scraps in a week?
- What is the aggregate amount of food scraps produced per week by county?
- What is the aggregate amount of food scraps produced per week by town?
- What is the top generator of food scraps by weight per week, in every business type category?
- What is the top generator of food scraps by weight per week, in every business subtype category?
- What is the top generator of food scraps by weight per week, in every county?
- What is the total amount of food scraps generated per week by Family Dollar stores?
- What is the total amount of food scraps generated per week by Subway?
- What is the estimated total of food scraps generated per year per business type?

An interactive visualization was created using Tableau that estimates the total weight of food scraps in tons per week generated by a business or institution. The data in the dashboard can also be filtered by county, business type, business subtype or town, by clicking on segments of the tree map or bar charts, or simply using the drop-down filters on top. By using different filters, it's easy to see the estimated total weight of food scraps generated by a particular county or business type (i.e. food manufacturers) in the state of Vermont in a week.

Link to dataset: https://anrgeodata.vermont.gov/datasets/VTANR::food-scrap-generators/about

Link to Tableau visualization: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/joey.lee2698/viz/vtfoodscrapgenerators2/Dashboard1


